content/docs/guides/testing.mdx, before:

---
title: Testing & Debugging
description: Comprehensive guide to testing and debugging your OpenHive agents.
---

import { Terminal, Play, Bug, Network } from 'lucide-react';
import { Step, Steps } from 'fumadocs-ui/components/steps';

Building reliable autonomous agents requires rigorous testing. OpenHive provides a suite of tools to test your agents locally, simulate cloud environments, and interact with them via the CLI.

## The `call` Command

The primary way to interact with an agent is the `hive call` command. This universal client can talk to any A2A-compliant agent, whether it's running on your laptop via `hive start` or deployed to the OpenHive Cloud.

### Basic Usage

Send a simple text message to an agent:

```bash
hive call <agent> --message "Your prompt here"
```

**Examples:**

1. **Remote Agent**: Pass the agent's name to resolve it from the registry.
   ```bash
   hive call weather-bot --message "What's the weather in Tokyo?"
   ```

2. **Local Agent**: Pass the local URL if you are running the agent yourself.
   ```bash
   hive call http://localhost:3000 --message "Hello local agent"
   ```

### Interactive Mode

If you omit the `--message` flag, the CLI enters an interactive chat mode.

```bash
hive call weather-bot
```

## Testing Locally

You don't need to deploy to the cloud to test your agent. The "Source-First" workflow allows you to run everything on your machine.

<Steps>
  <Step>
    ### Start the Agent
    Navigate to your agent's directory and run the development server.

    ```bash
    cd my-agent
    hive start
    ```
    This will start your agent (typically on `http://localhost:3000`) and serve its `.well-known/agent-card.json`.
  </Step>

  <Step>
    ### Interact
    Open a new terminal window and use `hive call` to talk to your local instance.

    ```bash
    hive call http://localhost:3000
    ```
    You can now chat with your agent in real-time, see streaming responses, and verify task completion.
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Testing Remote Agents

You can also use the CLI to test agents deployed to the cloud or a private cluster.

### OpenHive Cloud

To test an agent on the public platform, simply login and run `call`.

```bash
hive login
hive call weather-bot --message "What's the weather in Tokyo?"
```

### Private/Custom Registry

If you are running a self-hosted OpenHive cluster, you can point the CLI to your custom registry via configuration or by using the direct URL of the agent.

```bash
hive call https://my-internal-agent.corp.com
```

## Debugging Tips

<Cards>
  <Card icon={<Network className="text-green-500" />} title="Inspect Network Traffic">
    Agents communicate over standard HTTP. You can use tools like **Wireshark** or **Proxyman** to inspect the JSON payloads being sent to and from your agent's endpoint.
  </Card>
  <Card icon={<Bug className="text-red-500" />} title="Verbose Logging">
    When running your agent locally with `hive start`, all logs are output to stdout. Look for `[A2A]` prefixes to see protocol-level events.
  </Card>
  <Card icon={<Play className="text-blue-500" />} title="Unit Testing">
    Since OpenHive agents are just classes, you can write standard Jest (Node) or Pytest (Python) unit tests for your `AgentExecutor` logic without spinning up a server.
  </Card>
</Cards>

### Unit Test Example (Node.js)

```typescript
import { MyExecutor } from './agent';

test('MyExecutor replies correctly', async () => {
  const executor = new MyExecutor();
  const mockBus = { publish: jest.fn(), finished: jest.fn() };
  
  await executor.execute(mockContext, mockBus);
  
  expect(mockBus.publish).toHaveBeenCalledWith(
    expect.objectContaining({
      parts: [{ text: "Hello World" }]
    })
  );
});
```

Commit message:

fix(system): use agent table for display agents pending approval

content/docs/guides/testing.mdx, after:

---
title: Testing & Debugging
description: Comprehensive guide to testing and debugging your OpenHive agents.
---

import { Terminal, Play, Bug, Network } from 'lucide-react';
import { Step, Steps } from 'fumadocs-ui/components/steps';

Building reliable autonomous agents requires rigorous testing. OpenHive provides a suite of tools to test your agents locally, simulate cloud environments, and interact with them via the CLI.

## The `call` Command

The primary way to interact with an agent is the `hive call` command. This universal client can talk to any A2A-compliant agent, whether it's running on your laptop via `hive start` or deployed to the OpenHive Cloud.

### Basic Usage

Send a simple text message to an agent:

```bash
hive call <agent> --message "Your prompt here"
```

**Examples:**

1. **Remote Agent**: Pass the agent's name to resolve it from the registry.
   ```bash
   hive call weather-bot --message "What's the weather in Tokyo?"
   ```

2. **Local Agent**: Pass the local URL if you are running the agent yourself.
   ```bash
   hive call http://localhost:3000 --message "Hello local agent"
   ```

### Interactive Mode

Use the `-i` (or `--interactive`) flag to enter a real-time chat session with the agent.

```bash
hive call weather-bot -i
```

### Working with Attachments

You can attach files or entire directories to your message using the `-f` and `-d` flags. The CLI handles encoding and sending them to the agent.

```bash
# Attach a single file
hive call log-analyzer -m "Analyze this" -f ./server.log

# Attach multiple files and a directory
hive call code-reviewer -m "Review my code" -f ./app.ts -d ./src/components/
```

## Testing Locally

You don't need to deploy to the cloud to test your agent. The "Source-First" workflow allows you to run everything on your machine.

<Steps>
  <Step>
    ### Start the Agent
    Navigate to your agent's directory and run the development server.

    ```bash
    cd my-agent
    hive start
    ```
    This will start your agent (typically on `http://localhost:3000`) and serve its `.well-known/agent-card.json`.
  </Step>

  <Step>
    ### Interact
    Open a new terminal window and use `hive call` to talk to your local instance.

    ```bash
    hive call http://localhost:3000
    ```
    You can now chat with your agent in real-time, see streaming responses, and verify task completion.
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Testing Remote Agents

You can also use the CLI to test agents deployed to the cloud or a private cluster.

### OpenHive Cloud

To test an agent on the public platform, simply login and run `call`.

```bash
hive login
hive call weather-bot --message "What's the weather in Tokyo?"
```

### Private/Custom Registry

If you are running a self-hosted OpenHive cluster, you can point the CLI to your custom registry via configuration or by using the direct URL of the agent.

```bash
hive call https://my-internal-agent.corp.com
```

## Debugging Tips

<Cards>
  <Card icon={<Network className="text-green-500" />} title="Inspect Network Traffic">
    Agents communicate over standard HTTP. You can use tools like **Wireshark** or **Proxyman** to inspect the JSON payloads being sent to and from your agent's endpoint.
  </Card>
  <Card icon={<Bug className="text-red-500" />} title="Verbose Logging">
    When running your agent locally with `hive start`, all logs are output to stdout. Look for `[A2A]` prefixes to see protocol-level events.
  </Card>
  <Card icon={<Play className="text-blue-500" />} title="Unit Testing">
    Since OpenHive agents are just classes, you can write standard Jest (Node) or Pytest (Python) unit tests for your `AgentExecutor` logic without spinning up a server.
  </Card>
</Cards>

### Unit Test Example (Node.js)

```typescript
import { MyExecutor } from './agent';

test('MyExecutor replies correctly', async () => {
  const executor = new MyExecutor();
  const mockBus = { publish: jest.fn(), finished: jest.fn() };
  
  await executor.execute(mockContext, mockBus);
  
  expect(mockBus.publish).toHaveBeenCalledWith(
    expect.objectContaining({
      parts: [{ text: "Hello World" }]
    })
  );
});
```
